.TH ANALYSIS 1 2026-7月 "" "UMAP Dimensionality Reduction and Taxonomy-Enriched Visualization"
.SH NAME
analysis \- analysis(embedding.file,
    <i>knn</i> = <span style='color: green;'>200</span>,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIanalysis(embedding.file,
    <i>knn</i> = <span style='color: green;'>200</span>,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs UMAP (Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection) dimensionality
reduction on metabolic embedding data, appends full taxonomic annotations
to the result, and generates a scatter plot visualization via
\code{\link{genome_scatter_viz}}.
The function uses Cosine distance as the similarity metric and produces
a 3-dimensional UMAP embedding. The first seven EC number hierarchy levels
(EC1 through EC7) are preserved as additional columns in the output for
downstream analysis.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBembedding.file\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBknn\fB \fR\- 200. Integer. The number of nearest neighbors to use for UMAP
graph construction. Larger values produce more global structure,
while smaller values preserve local structure. Defaults to 200.
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The directory path where output files will be
saved. Defaults to \code{"./"}. If not provided, the directory of
\code{embedding_file} is used.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following files to \code{workdir}:
\itemize{
\item \code{umap.csv} — The UMAP embedding result with appended
taxonomic annotations and EC hierarchy columns.
\item \code{scatter_plot.png} — Scatter plot of the UMAP embedding
(via \code{\link{genome_scatter_viz}}).
\item \code{scatter_plot.svg} — SVG version of the scatter plot.
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The analysis pipeline:
\enumerate{
\item Reads the embedding CSV and parses the taxonomy strings.
\item Removes the \code{taxonomy} column before running UMAP
(to avoid passing non-numeric data to the algorithm).
\item Runs UMAP with 3 dimensions, Cosine distance metric, and the
specified \code{knn} nearest neighbors.
\item Appends the following taxonomic columns to the result:
\code{scientific_name}, \code{kingdom}, \code{phylum}, \code{class},
\code{order}, \code{family}, \code{genus}, \code{species}.
\item Preserves the top-level EC hierarchy columns
(\code{1.-.-.-} through \code{7.-.-.-}).
\item Exports the enriched result as CSV.
\item Generates a scatter plot via \code{\link{genome_scatter_viz}}.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

analysis(
embedding_file = "results/embedding/metabolic_embedding.csv",
knn = 150,
workdir = "results/umap"
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{diamond_embedding}} for generating the input
embedding data, \code{\link{genome_scatter_viz}} for the scatter
plot visualization, \code{\link{singlecells_analysis}} for an
alternative Seurat-based analysis.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.analysis at umap.R:line 66
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
