.TH ANNOTATION_WORKFLOW 1 2026-7月 "" "Register the Virtual Cell Network Modelling Workflows"
.SH NAME
annotation_workflow \- annotation_workflow(debug)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIannotation_workflow(debug)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Defines and registers the sequential annotation and modelling workflow
steps that constitute the virtual cell graph construction pipeline.
Each step is hooked into the \pkg{WorkflowRender} engine and will be
executed in the order they are registered.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdebug\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effect
of registering workflow steps with the \pkg{WorkflowRender} engine.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The complete workflow sequence is:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{make_genbank_proj} \cr
Extract protein sequences, TSS upstream regions, genomic context data,
and taxonomy information from the GenBank source file(s).
\item \strong{tfbs_motif_scanning} \cr
Run Transcription Factor Binding Site (TFBS) motif scanning on the
TSS upstream region sequences extracted in step 1.
\item \strong{make_diamond_hits} \cr
Run DIAMOND BLASTP homology search for the protein sequences against
EC number, subcellular location, and transcription factor reference
databases.
\item \strong{make_terms} \cr
Score the BLASTP results and assign protein ontology terms (EC numbers,
subcellular localizations, transcription factor annotations).
\item \strong{make_TRN} \cr
Construct the Transcription Regulation Network (TRN) by combining the
TFBS motif scan results with the transcription factor BLASTP hits.
\item \strong{build_project} \cr
Compile the TRN and metabolic network annotations into a final virtual
cell model and export as GCMarkup XML.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Register all workflow steps
annotation_workflow()
# Then run the workflow
WorkflowRender::run(registry = CellRender::annotation_workflow)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_genbank_proj}}, \code{\link{tfbs_motif_scanning}},
\code{\link{make_diamond_hits}}, \code{\link{make_terms}},
\code{\link{make_TRN}}, \code{\link{build_project}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.annotation_workflow at apps.R:line 50
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
