.TH BUILD_PROJECT 1 2026-7月 "" "Build GenBank Annotation Project into Virtual Cell Model"
.SH NAME
build_project \- build_project(app, context)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIbuild_project(app, context)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Acts as the main entry point for building virtual cell models from
GenBank annotation project files. It automatically detects the processing
mode based on the \code{batch_process} configuration parameter:
\itemize{
\item \strong{Batch Mode} (\code{batch_process = TRUE}): Iterates through
all models returned by \code{\link{list_batch_models}}, reading the
\code{builder.gcproj} file in each directory and saving the compiled
output as \code{model.xml} (or a taxonomy-name-based XML file).
\item \strong{Single Mode} (\code{batch_process = FALSE}): Processes a
single project file specified in the configuration, allowing a specific
virtual cell name (\code{vcell_name}) to be assigned.
}
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . The application object or environment, used for resolving
workflow configuration via \code{get_config()}.
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . The execution context object provided by the workflow engine.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects:
\itemize{
\item In batch mode: compiles each model into a GCMarkup XML file
within its respective release subdirectory.
\item In single mode: compiles the model into the XML file specified
by the \code{model_file} configuration parameter.
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function first loads the local data registry (required for constructing
the virtual cell component network), then dispatches to
\code{\link{compile_model}} for the actual compilation step.
In batch mode, the output XML filename is derived from the organism's
taxonomy name (sanitized via \code{normalizeFileName}) when available,
falling back to the model directory basename otherwise.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# This function is typically invoked by the workflow engine:
WorkflowRender::run(registry = CellRender::annotation_workflow)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{compile_model}} for the core compilation logic,
\code{\link{list_batch_models}} for batch model directory listing.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.build_project at build_project.R:line 49
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
