.TH DIAMOND_EMBEDDING 1 2026-7月 "" "Generate Metabolic Embedding from DIAMOND BLASTP Results"
.SH NAME
diamond_embedding \- diamond_embedding(diamond.result,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>union.contigs</i> = <span style='color: green;'>250</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIdiamond_embedding(diamond.result,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>union.contigs</i> = <span style='color: green;'>250</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Processes DIAMOND BLASTP alignment output to produce a metabolic
capability embedding for a set of genomes. The pipeline extracts
EC number annotation terms from BLASTP hits, constructs genome-level
metabolic feature vectors, applies TF-IDF vectorization with
hierarchical aggregation, and exports the resulting embedding matrix.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdiamond.result\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The working directory where intermediate and
final output files will be written. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.PP
\fBunion.contigs\fB \fR\- 250. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following files to \code{workdir}:
\itemize{
\item \code{ec_terms.csv} — Extracted EC number annotation terms per genome.
\item \code{genomes_metabolic.jsonl} — Genome metabolic feature vectors
in JSON Lines format.
\item \code{metabolic_embedding.csv} — The final TF-IDF embedding matrix.
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The embedding generation pipeline:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{Term extraction}: Reads the DIAMOND result stream and
extracts EC number-based metabolic annotation terms via
\code{m8_metabolic_terms()}.
\item \strong{Feature vector construction}: Converts the term stream
into genome-level metabolic feature vectors using
\code{make_vectors()}.
\item \strong{JSONL export}: Writes the feature vectors in JSON Lines
format for interoperability.
\item \strong{TF-IDF vectorization}: Applies TF-IDF transformation
with hierarchical aggregation, filtering EC numbers that appear
in fewer than \code{union_contigs} genomes.
\item \strong{Embedding export}: Writes the final embedding matrix
as a CSV file.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

diamond_embedding(
diamond_result = "results/blastp/ec_number.m8",
workdir = "results/embedding",
union_contigs = 100
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{pangenome_analysis}} for the upstream pan-genome
analysis that produces the DIAMOND results,
\code{\link[umap]{analysis}} for UMAP dimensionality reduction on
the embedding.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.diamond_embedding at embedding.R:line 69
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
