.TH EXPORT_TREE 1 2026-6月 "" "Export Metabolic Tree Network Visualization"
.SH NAME
export_tree \- export_tree(embedding.file,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>node.equals</i> = <span style='color: green;'>0.999</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIexport_tree(embedding.file,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>node.equals</i> = <span style='color: green;'>0.999</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Constructs a tree graph from metabolic embedding data and exports it
as a network visualization file. The tree graph is built from an
OTU-style table using imputation for missing values and a configurable
node equality threshold for branch merging.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBembedding.file\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The directory path where the exported network
file will be saved. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.PP
\fBnode.equals\fB \fR\- 0.999. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effect
of writing a network file named \code{metabolic_tree} to \code{workdir}.
The file format is determined by \code{igraph::save.network()}.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The tree construction pipeline:
\enumerate{
\item Reads the embedding data as an OTU table.
\item Imputes missing values in the OTU table.
\item Constructs a tree graph using \code{OTU_table::makeTreeGraph()},
with nodes colored by the \code{Class} taxonomic rank.
\item Saves the resulting network graph to disk.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

export_tree(
embedding_file = "results/embedding/metabolic_embedding.csv",
workdir = "results/tree_viz",
node_equals = 0.995
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{diamond_embedding}} for generating the input
embedding data, \code{\link[umap]{analysis}} for UMAP-based
alternative visualization.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.export_tree at tree_viz.R:line 46
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
