.TH EXTRACT_GENOMES 1 2026-6月 "" "Extract Protein Sequences and Gene Features from Batch GenBank Files"
.SH NAME
extract_genomes \- extract_genomes(src, outputdir)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIextract_genomes(src, outputdir)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


This function processes multiple GenBank files located in a source directory.
It extracts protein sequences and gene feature tables from each file and
exports them to a specified output directory. Specifically, it generates
FASTA files (\code{.faa}) for protein sequences and CSV files (\code{.csv}) for
gene annotation tables.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBsrc\fB \fR\- . A character string specifying the directory path containing the
GenBank source files. The function scans for files with extensions
\code{.gb}, \code{.gbk}, or \code{.gbff}.
.PP
.PP
\fBoutputdir\fB \fR\- . A character string specifying the directory path where the
extracted data files will be saved. If the directory does not exist, it
should be created beforehand (or the function may fail depending on
the file system permissions).
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following files for each GenBank file found:
\describe{
\item{\code{<accession_id>.faa}}{Protein FASTA file with locus-tag-only
headers.}
\item{\code{<accession_id>.csv}}{Gene feature annotation table in CSV
format.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
For each GenBank file found in \code{src}:
\enumerate{
\item Reads and parses the GenBank file.
\item Extracts the GenBank accession ID.
\item Exports protein sequences with locus-tag-only FASTA headers
(using the template \code{"<locus_tag>"}).
\item Exports the gene feature table as a CSV file with ORF annotations.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

extract_genomes(
src = "data/genbank_assemblies/",
outputdir = "results/extracted_proteins/"
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{extract_gbff}} for extracting upstream sequences
from a single GenBank file, \code{\link{make_genbank_proj}} for the
full project initialization workflow.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.extract_genomes at extract_genomes.R:line 50
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
