.TH EXTRACT_GBFF 1 2026-7月 "" "Extract Upstream Sequences and Annotations from a GenBank File"
.SH NAME
extract_gbff \- extract_gbff(src,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>upstream.size</i> = <span style='color: green;'>150</span>,
    <i>tag.genbank.accid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>,
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>TRUE</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIextract_gbff(src,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>upstream.size</i> = <span style='color: green;'>150</span>,
    <i>tag.genbank.accid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>,
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>TRUE</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This is a helper function that parses a GenBank assembly file to extract
genomic sequences, gene features, and the upstream regions relative to the
Transcription Start Sites (TSS). It is designed to prepare data for
downstream transcript regulation network analysis.
The function performs extensive file I/O operations. It extracts the raw
genomic FASTA, calculates the TSS upstream loci for each gene, cuts these
loci from the genome, and exports both the sequences and tabular context
files to the specified working directory.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBsrc\fB \fR\- . A character string specifying the file path to the GenBank
source file.
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- './'. A character string specifying the working directory where
all extracted files will be saved. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.PP
\fBupstream.size\fB \fR\- 150. 
.PP
.PP
\fBtag.genbank.accid\fB \fR\- FALSE. 
.PP
.PP
\fBverbose\fB \fR\- TRUE. Logical. If \code{TRUE}, prints additional debug
information including the upstream locus titles. Defaults to \code{FALSE}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following files to \code{workdir}:
\describe{
\item{\code{genes.csv}}{Gene feature annotation table extracted from
the GenBank file.}
\item{\code{context.txt}}{PTT-format genomic context tabular file.}
\item{\code{source.fasta}}{Raw genomic nucleotide FASTA sequences.}
\item{\code{upstream_locis.fasta}}{TSS upstream region sequences
with gene locus tag headers.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The extraction pipeline:
\enumerate{
\item Reads the GenBank file and extracts the full genomic sequence.
\item Parses gene features and their coordinates.
\item Calculates the TSS position for each gene based on strand orientation.
\item Extracts the upstream region of the specified size from each TSS.
\item Tags each upstream sequence with its corresponding gene locus tag.
\item Exports all data to the working directory.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

extract_gbff(
src = "data/sequence.gbff",
workdir = "results/extracted",
upstream_size = 500,
verbose = TRUE
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_genbank_proj}} for the higher-level workflow
that calls this function, \code{\link{tfbs_motif_scanning}} which
consumes the \code{upstream_locis.fasta} output.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.extract_gbff at extract_gbff.R:line 63
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
