.TH GENOME_SCATTER_VIZ 1 2026-6月 "" "Generate Scatter Plot Visualization of Genome Embedding Results"
.SH NAME
genome_scatter_viz \- genome_scatter_viz(data,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIgenome_scatter_viz(data,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Creates a publication-quality scatter plot from genome embedding data,
coloring points by taxonomic phylum and sizing points inversely proportional
to the number of genomes in each phylum group. The plot is saved in both
PNG and SVG formats.
This function uses native R with \pkg{ggplot2} and \pkg{dplyr} for
data processing and visualization.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdata\fB \fR\- . A data frame containing the embedding coordinates with at least
the following columns:
\describe{
\item{dimension_1}{Numeric. The first embedding dimension (x-axis).}
\item{dimension_2}{Numeric. The second embedding dimension (y-axis).}
\item{phylum}{Character. The taxonomic phylum assignment for each genome.}
}
.PP
.PP
\fBoutputdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The directory path where the output plot files
will be saved. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following files to \code{outputdir}:
\itemize{
\item \code{scatter_plot.png} — High-resolution PNG scatter plot
(600 DPI, 12 x 8 inches).
\item \code{scatter_plot.svg} — SVG vector scatter plot
(600 DPI, 12 x 8 inches).
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The visualization applies the following design choices:
\itemize{
\item Points are colored by \code{phylum} using the default ggplot2
discrete color palette.
\item Point size is mapped to the subset size of each phylum group,
with a \strong{reversed} scale so that larger groups (more genomes)
are rendered with \emph{smaller} points, reducing visual clutter
from dominant phyla.
\item A global alpha of 0.3 is applied for transparency to handle
overlapping points.
\item The minimal theme is used for a clean, publication-ready appearance.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Assuming 'embedding_data' has columns: dimension_1, dimension_2, phylum
genome_scatter_viz(
data = embedding_data,
outputdir = "results/figures"
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link[umap]{analysis}} which generates the embedding data
consumed by this function, \code{\link{singlecells_viz}} for an
alternative Seurat-based visualization approach.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.genome_scatter_viz at scatter_viz.R:line 58
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
