.TH MAGS_MODEL 1 2026-6月 "" "Compile a Metagenome-Assembled Genome (MAG) as a Virtual Cell Model"
.SH NAME
MAGs_model \- MAGs_model(contigs, tax.str,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIMAGs_model(contigs, tax.str,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Processes a metagenome-assembled genome (MAG) contigs assembly by
performing gene prediction with Prodigal, then exporting the predicted
genes and proteins in multiple standard bioinformatics formats for
downstream analysis and virtual cell model construction.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBcontigs\fB \fR\- . A character string or object representing the MAG contigs
assembly data. This is typically a FASTA file path or a parsed contigs
object that can be processed by \code{bifrost::prodigal()}.
.PP
.PP
\fBtax.str\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBoutputdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The directory path where the output files
will be saved. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following files to \code{outputdir}:
\describe{
\item{\code{gene_predicts.csv}}{Gene prediction results in CSV format.}
\item{\code{gene_predicts.gff3}}{Gene predictions in GFF3 format.}
\item{\code{gene_predicts.fna}}{Nucleotide FASTA of predicted gene sequences.}
\item{\code{protein_predicts.faa}}{Protein FASTA of predicted protein sequences.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The processing pipeline:
\enumerate{
\item Runs \code{bifrost::prodigal()} on the contigs to predict
open reading frames (ORFs) with a minimum ORF length of 90 bp.
\item If \code{tax_str} is a character string, parses it into a
structured taxonomy object.
\item Exports the gene prediction results in four standard formats:
CSV (tabular summary), GFF3 (standard annotation format), FASTA
nucleotide (gene sequences), and FASTA protein (translated sequences).
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

MAGs_model(
contigs = "data/MAGs/bin_001.fasta",
tax_str = "d__Bacteria;p__Firmicutes;c__Bacilli;o__Bacillales;f__Bacillaceae;g__Bacillus;s__Bacillus subtilis",
outputdir = "results/MAGs/bin_001"
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_genbank_proj}} for processing complete GenBank
assemblies, \code{\link{build_project}} for compiling annotations into
virtual cell models.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.MAGs_model at MAGs_model.R:line 57
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
