.TH MAKE_TRN 1 2026-6月 "" "Build the Transcription Regulation Network (TRN)"
.SH NAME
make_TRN \- make_TRN(app, context)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fImake_TRN(app, context)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Constructs the transcription regulation network within the virtual cell
model by integrating the TFBS motif scanning results into the project
session. This step is conditionally executed and will only run if the
\code{TRN_network} module is enabled in the virtual cell build configuration.
The TRN is built by combining two data sources:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{TFBS motif sites} — obtained from the preceding
\code{\link{tfbs_motif_scanning}} workflow step, which identifies
potential transcription factor binding sites in gene upstream regions.
\item \strong{Transcription factor annotations} — obtained from the
\code{\link{make_terms}} workflow step, which identifies which proteins
are transcription factors via DIAMOND BLASTP.
}
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . The application object passed by the workflow engine.
Used for resolving workflow file paths via \code{workfile()}.
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . The execution context object provided by the workflow engine.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects:
\itemize{
\item Reads the TFBS motif scan results from the workspace.
\item Injects the TFBS data into the project session via \code{set_tfbs}.
\item Saves the updated project file to disk.
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
This function checks whether the \code{TRN_network} build module is enabled
via \code{\link{check_build_module}}. If not enabled, the function exits
immediately without performing any operations.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# This function is typically invoked by the workflow engine:
WorkflowRender::run(registry = CellRender::annotation_workflow)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{tfbs_motif_scanning}} for the preceding TFBS scanning step,
\code{\link{make_terms}} for the transcription factor annotation step,
\code{\link{check_build_module}} for module enablement checking.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.make_TRN at make_TRN.R:line 49
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
