.TH MAKE_DIAMOND_HITS 1 2026-7月 "" "make_diamond_hits"
.SH NAME
make_diamond_hits \- make_diamond_hits(app, context)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fImake_diamond_hits(app, context)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Executes a DIAMOND blastp search workflow against multiple reference databases.
This function orchestrates the entire process: it configures the environment,
creates the necessary DIAMOND databases (if not already created), performs
the sequence alignment against EC numbers, subcellular locations, and
transcription factors, and manages the working directory state.
The function supports two execution modes based on the \code{batch_process}
configuration:
\itemize{
\item \strong{Batch Mode}: Iterates through all model subdirectories,
locating each model's protein FASTA file and running DIAMOND searches
in a model-specific workspace.
\item \strong{Single Mode}: Processes a single protein FASTA file from
the \code{make_genbank_proj} workspace output.
}
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . The application object passed by the workflow engine.
Used for workflow context and configuration resolution via
\code{get_config()} and \code{workfile()}.
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . The execution context object provided by the workflow engine.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
This function is called for its side effects (creating .m8 output files).
It does not return a value explicitly to the R session, but generates
alignment result files in the DIAMOND workspace directory:
\itemize{
\item \code{ec_number.m8} - EC number annotation hits
\item \code{subcellular.m8} - Subcellular localization hits
\item \code{transcript_factor.m8} - Transcription factor hits
\item \code{Pfam.csv} - Pfam domain annotation results
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function performs the following steps:
\enumerate{
\item Resolves the DIAMOND executable path from configuration or system PATH.
\item Creates DIAMOND reference databases from the local data directory
(EC numbers, subcellular locations, transcription factors) using
\code{\link{make_diamond}}.
\item Runs Pfam domain analysis via \code{\link{pfam_diamond}}.
\item Executes DIAMOND BLASTP searches against each reference database.
\item Restores the original working directory upon completion.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# This function is typically invoked by the workflow engine:
WorkflowRender::run(registry = CellRender::annotation_workflow)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_diamond}} for database construction,
\code{\link{pfam_diamond}} for Pfam domain analysis,
\code{\link{make_terms}} for the downstream term-parsing step.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.make_diamond_hits at make_diamond_hits.R:line 60
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
