.TH MAKE_GENBANK_PROJ 1 2026-7月 "" "Initialize a GenBank Project and Export Downstream Sequence Files"
.SH NAME
make_genbank_proj \- make_genbank_proj(app, context)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fImake_genbank_proj(app, context)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Loads GenBank source files specified in the application configuration,
initializes a new \code{project} object via \code{CellRender}, and saves the
resulting project state to disk. Additionally, it extracts and exports
essential FASTA files required for downstream bioinformatics analyses,
such as motif scanning and homology searches.
This function serves as the workflow entry point and automatically detects
the processing mode from the \code{batch_process} configuration parameter:
\itemize{
\item \strong{Batch Mode} (\code{batch_process = TRUE}): Scans the source
directory for all GenBank files (\code{.gb}, \code{.gbk}, \code{.gbff})
and processes each one individually via \code{\link{make_genbank_proj_file}}.
\item \strong{Single Mode} (\code{batch_process = FALSE}): Processes a
single GenBank source file specified by the \code{src} configuration key.
}
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . A CellRender workflow app object. Primarily used in this
function to resolve working file paths via \code{workfile()}.
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . A CellRender workflow context object.
\emph{Note:} Currently unused in this specific function but required
by the standard workflow execution interface.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects:
\itemize{
\item Creates a \code{builder.gcproj} project file in the release directory.
\item Exports \code{upstream_locis.fasta} (TSS upstream sequences for motif
scanning) and \code{proteins.fasta} (protein sequences for DIAMOND BLASTP)
to the working directory.
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
In batch mode, each GenBank file is processed in its own subdirectory
(named by the model accession ID) within both the release and working
directories. In single mode, files are written directly to the configured
paths without subdirectory nesting.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# This function is typically invoked by the workflow engine:
WorkflowRender::run(registry = CellRender::annotation_workflow)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_genbank_proj_file}} for the core per-file processing
logic, \code{\link{model_accession_id}} for accession ID extraction.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.make_genbank_proj at make_genbank_proj.R:line 55
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
