.TH MAKE_GENBANK_PROJ_FILE 1 2026-7月 "internal" "Initialize a Single GenBank Project and Export Sequence Files"
.SH NAME
make_genbank_proj_file \- make_genbank_proj_file(src, release.dir,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>''</strong></span>,
    <i>batch.process</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fImake_genbank_proj_file(src, release.dir,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>''</strong></span>,
    <i>batch.process</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Core processing function that ingests a GenBank file, wraps it into a
standardized \code{project} object via \code{CellRender}, saves the
project state to disk, and extracts essential FASTA files required for
downstream bioinformatics analyses (motif scanning and homology searches).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBsrc\fB \fR\- . Character. The file path to a single GenBank source file.
.PP
.PP
\fBrelease.dir\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- ''. Character. The working directory where extracted FASTA
files will be written.
.PP
.PP
\fBbatch.process\fB \fR\- FALSE. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects:
\itemize{
\item Creates a \code{builder.gcproj} project file in the release directory
(under a model-ID subdirectory in batch mode).
\item Exports \code{upstream_locis.fasta} containing TSS upstream region
sequences for downstream TFBS motif scanning.
\item Exports \code{proteins.fasta} containing protein sequences for
downstream DIAMOND BLASTP annotation searches.
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function performs the following operations:
\enumerate{
\item Reads the GenBank source file and creates a \code{project} object.
\item Extracts the model accession ID (in batch mode) for directory naming.
\item Saves the project file to the release directory.
\item Extracts and writes TSS upstream sequences (\code{upstream_locis.fasta})
for transcription factor binding site motif scanning.
\item Extracts and writes protein sequences (\code{proteins.fasta}) for
DIAMOND BLASTP homology annotation.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Process a single GenBank file
make_genbank_proj_file(
src = "GCF_000123456.1.gbff",
release_dir = "release",
workdir = "workspace/make_genbank_proj",
batch_process = FALSE
)
# Process in batch mode (creates subdirectory by accession ID)
make_genbank_proj_file(
src = "GCF_000123456.1.gbff",
release_dir = "release",
workdir = "workspace/make_genbank_proj",
batch_process = TRUE
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_genbank_proj}} which calls this function,
\code{\link{model_accession_id}} for accession ID extraction.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.make_genbank_proj_file at make_genbank_proj_file.R:line 65
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
