.TH MODELLING_CELLGRAPH 1 2026-7月 "" "Run the Virtual Cell Graph Modeling Workflow"
.SH NAME
modelling_cellgraph \- modelling_cellgraph(src,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>name</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>up.len</i> = <span style='color: green;'>150</span>,
    <i>localdb</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>diamond</i> = 'Sys.which'('diamond'),
    <i>domain</i> = 'c'('bacteria', 'plant', 'animal', 'fungi'),
    <i>builds</i> = 'c'('TRN_network', 'Metabolic_network'),
    <i>enable.blastp.cache</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>,
    <i>enzyme.fuzzy</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>,
    <i>gems.library.mode</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>TRUE</span>,
    <i>batch.mode</i> = 'c'('batch', 'sequential'),
    <i>n.threads</i> = <span style='color: green;'>32</span>,
    <i>debug</i> = 'c'())
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fImodelling_cellgraph(src,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>name</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>up.len</i> = <span style='color: green;'>150</span>,
    <i>localdb</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>diamond</i> = 'Sys.which'('diamond'),
    <i>domain</i> = 'c'('bacteria', 'plant', 'animal', 'fungi'),
    <i>builds</i> = 'c'('TRN_network', 'Metabolic_network'),
    <i>enable.blastp.cache</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>,
    <i>enzyme.fuzzy</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>,
    <i>gems.library.mode</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>TRUE</span>,
    <i>batch.mode</i> = 'c'('batch', 'sequential'),
    <i>n.threads</i> = <span style='color: green;'>32</span>,
    <i>debug</i> = 'c'())\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Executes the end-to-end workflow for constructing a virtual cell graph model
from an NCBI GenBank assembly source file. This function initializes the
environment, configures parameters, runs the annotation workflow, and
generates the corresponding project files and reports.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBsrc\fB \fR\- . \code{character}. The file path to the NCBI GenBank assembly
source file. In batch mode, this can be a directory containing multiple
GenBank files.
.PP
.PP
\fBoutputdir\fB \fR\- NULL. \code{character}. The directory path for storing
result files. Defaults to a temporary directory created by
\code{tempdir()} if not specified.
.PP
.PP
\fBname\fB \fR\- NULL. \code{character}. The name to assign to the virtual cell model.
Only used in single-project mode. Defaults to \code{"virtual_cell"}.
.PP
.PP
\fBup.len\fB \fR\- 150. 
.PP
.PP
\fBlocaldb\fB \fR\- NULL. 
.PP
.PP
\fBdiamond\fB \fR\- 'Sys.which'('diamond'). 
.PP
.PP
\fBdomain\fB \fR\- 'c'('bacteria', 'plant', 'animal', 'fungi'). 
.PP
.PP
\fBbuilds\fB \fR\- 'c'('TRN_network', 'Metabolic_network'). 
.PP
.PP
\fBenable.blastp.cache\fB \fR\- FALSE. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenzyme.fuzzy\fB \fR\- FALSE. 
.PP
.PP
\fBgems.library.mode\fB \fR\- TRUE. 
.PP
.PP
\fBbatch.mode\fB \fR\- 'c'('batch', 'sequential'). 
.PP
.PP
\fBn.threads\fB \fR\- 32. 
.PP
.PP
\fBdebug\fB \fR\- 'c'(). \code{character vector}. Optional vector of workflow step names
to enable for debugging. When provided, only the specified steps will be
executed via \code{WorkflowRender::definePipeline()}. Defaults to an
empty vector (all steps run).
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of creating project files, annotation data, and compiled virtual cell
model XML files in the output directory.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
This function acts as a high-level wrapper around the \code{WorkflowRender}
and \code{CellRender} engines. It sets up a temporary workspace (if not
provided), resolves dependencies (like the DIAMOND executable), and triggers
the specific annotation modules requested by the user.
The complete workflow pipeline includes:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{make_genbank_proj}: Extract protein sequences, TSS upstream
regions, genomic context, and taxonomy from GenBank source file(s).
\item \strong{tfbs_motif_scanning}: Scan for transcription factor binding
site motifs in upstream regions (conditional on TRN_network module).
\item \strong{make_diamond_hits}: Run DIAMOND BLASTP against EC number,
subcellular location, and transcription factor reference databases.
\item \strong{make_terms}: Parse BLASTP results and assign annotation terms
for metabolic, transmembrane, and transcription regulation networks.
\item \strong{make_TRN}: Build the transcription regulation network from
TFBS scan results and TF annotations (conditional on TRN_network module).
\item \strong{build_project}: Compile all networks into a virtual cell
model and export as GCMarkup XML.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Single GenBank file mode
run(src = "data/GCF_000005845.2_ASM584v2_genomic.gbff",
name = "E_coli_K12",
outputdir = "results/E_coli")
# Batch mode for multiple GenBank files
run(src = "data/genbank_assemblies/",
batch_mode = "batch",
outputdir = "results/batch")

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{annotation_workflow}} for the workflow registration
function, \code{\link{make_genbank_proj}}, \code{\link{make_diamond_hits}},
\code{\link{make_terms}}, \code{\link{make_TRN}}, \code{\link{build_project}}
for individual workflow steps.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.modelling_cellgraph at main.R:line 78
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
