.TH PANGENOME_ANALYSIS 1 2026-7月 "" "Pan-genome Analysis of a Microbial Community"
.SH NAME
pangenome_analysis \- pangenome_analysis(src, result.dir,
    <i>diamond</i> = 'Sys.which'('diamond'),
    <i>n.threads</i> = <span style='color: green;'>32</span>,
    <i>skip.blastp</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIpangenome_analysis(src, result.dir,
    <i>diamond</i> = 'Sys.which'('diamond'),
    <i>n.threads</i> = <span style='color: green;'>32</span>,
    <i>skip.blastp</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function orchestrates a complete pan-genome analysis pipeline for a
set of microbial genomes. It extracts genomic data from GenBank files,
performs protein annotation via DIAMOND BLASTP, assigns orthology groups,
and calculates both Structural Variation (SV) and Presence/Absence Variation (PAV).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBsrc\fB \fR\- . A character string specifying the directory path containing the
input NCBI GenBank assembly files.
.PP
.PP
\fBresult.dir\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBdiamond\fB \fR\- 'Sys.which'('diamond'). A character string specifying the file path to the DIAMOND
executable. Defaults to \code{Sys.which("diamond")}.
.PP
.PP
\fBn.threads\fB \fR\- 32. 
.PP
.PP
\fBskip.blastp\fB \fR\- FALSE. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects:
\itemize{
\item Creates an HTML analysis report (\code{analysis_report.html}).
\item Exports a Structural Variation table (\code{SV_result.csv}).
\item Exports a Presence/Absence Variation table (\code{PAV_result.csv}).
\item Writes intermediate protein FASTA and gene annotation CSV files
for each input genome.
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The pan-genome analysis pipeline consists of the following steps:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{Genome extraction}: Reads each GenBank file and exports
protein sequences (\code{.faa}) and gene annotation tables (\code{.csv}).
\item \strong{DIAMOND BLASTP}: Runs batch DIAMOND BLASTP against the
EC number reference database for all extracted protein sets.
\item \strong{Orthology assignment}: Parses BLASTP results and assigns
orthology group links based on the identity cutoff.
\item \strong{Pan-genome analysis}: Constructs a pan-genome context from
the gene tables and runs the analysis using the orthology links.
\item \strong{Report generation}: Exports the analysis results as an
HTML report and CSV tables.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

pangenome_analysis(
src = "data/genbank_assemblies",
result_dir = "results/pangenome",
diamond = "/usr/bin/diamond",
n_threads = 16,
identities_cut = 30
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{extract_genomes}} for genome data extraction,
\code{\link{batch_diamond}} for batch DIAMOND BLASTP execution.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.pangenome_analysis at pangenome.R:line 63
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
