.TH PFAM_DIAMOND 1 2026-7月 "internal" "Run Pfam Domain Analysis Using DIAMOND BLASTP"
.SH NAME
pfam_diamond \- pfam_diamond(proteins,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>diamond</i> = 'Sys.which'('diamond'))
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIpfam_diamond(proteins,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>diamond</i> = 'Sys.which'('diamond'))\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs protein domain annotation by running DIAMOND BLASTP search
against the Pfam-A database. The function creates a DIAMOND database
from the input protein sequences, searches them against the Pfam-A
reference, and then analyzes the domain architecture of the hits.
This function uses a reverse-search strategy: it builds the DIAMOND
database from the query proteins and uses the Pfam-A sequences as
the search query. This approach is optimized for annotating a small
number of genomes against the large Pfam reference.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBproteins\fB \fR\- . Character. The file path to the input protein FASTA
file (\code{.faa}) to be annotated.
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The working directory where DIAMOND
intermediate files will be created. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.PP
\fBdiamond\fB \fR\- 'Sys.which'('diamond'). Character. The file path to the DIAMOND executable.
Defaults to \code{Sys.which("diamond")}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following file:
\describe{
\item{\code{Pfam.csv}}{Pfam domain annotation table, written to the
same directory as the input \code{proteins} file. Contains domain
architecture analysis results from \code{proteinKit::analysis_domains()}.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The analysis pipeline:
\enumerate{
\item Changes the working directory to \code{workdir}.
\item Creates a DIAMOND database from the input protein sequences.
\item Runs DIAMOND BLASTP with the Pfam-A reference as query against
the protein database, using ultra-sensitive mode with PAM30 matrix
and relaxed e-value threshold (10) for domain detection.
\item Parses the BLASTP output in m8 format.
\item Analyzes domain architecture using \code{proteinKit::analysis_domains()}.
\item Restores the original working directory.
\item Exports the domain annotation results to \code{Pfam.csv}.
}
The DIAMOND search parameters are specifically tuned for Pfam domain
detection: PAM30 substitution matrix, gap open penalty of 9, gap
extension penalty of 1, and composition-based statistics disabled.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

pfam_diamond(
proteins = "results/proteins.fasta",
workdir = "results/pfam_search",
diamond = "/usr/bin/diamond"
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_diamond_hits}} which calls this function
as part of the annotation workflow, \code{\link{make_blastp_term}}
for parsing other BLASTP results.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.pfam_diamond at pfam.R:line 64
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
