.TH SINGLECELLS_VIZ 1 2026-6月 "" "Seurat-Based Single-Cell Style Visualization of Genome Metabolic Data"
.SH NAME
singlecells_viz \- singlecells_viz(rawdata,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIsinglecells_viz(rawdata,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Creates a comprehensive set of Seurat-style visualizations for genome
metabolic embedding data, treating genomes as "cells" and EC number
metabolic capabilities as "genes". This function leverages the \pkg{Seurat}
toolkit to produce dimensionality reduction plots, feature plots, violin
plots, and heatmaps.
This function is designed to be called via \code{native_r()} from the
GCModeller environment, which provides automatic package installation
for missing dependencies.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBrawdata\fB \fR\- . A data frame containing the metabolic embedding data.
Each row represents a genome, and columns represent EC number
metabolic features. Must contain a \code{taxonomy} column for
grouping, and optionally \code{Family}, \code{Phylum}, \code{Class},
\code{Order} columns for metadata.
.PP
.PP
\fBoutputdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The directory path where all output plot
files will be saved. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of writing the following PNG files to \code{outputdir}:
\describe{
\item{\code{SC_01_UMAP.png}}{UMAP dimensionality reduction plot
colored by taxonomic group.}
\item{\code{SC_02_FeaturePlot.png}}{Feature plots showing the
expression distribution of top variable EC numbers on the UMAP.}
\item{\code{SC_03_DimPlot_split.png}}{Split UMAP panels, one per
taxonomic group.}
\item{\code{SC_04_ViolinPlot.png}}{Violin plots of key EC number
expression across Family-level groups.}
\item{\code{SC_05_Heatmap.png}}{Heatmap of highly variable EC
numbers across genomes, grouped by Family.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The visualization pipeline:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{Data preprocessing}: Extracts metadata columns (taxonomy,
Family, Phylum, etc.) and creates a Seurat object from the EC number
feature matrix.
\item \strong{Normalization}: Applies \code{NormalizeData} with
\code{LogNormalize} to the EC count data.
\item \strong{Variable feature selection}: Identifies the top 2000
highly variable EC numbers using variance-stabilizing transformation.
\item \strong{Dimensionality reduction}: Runs PCA followed by UMAP
on the variable features.
\item \strong{Visualization}: Generates five types of plots:
\itemize{
\item UMAP colored by taxonomy group
\item Feature plots for top variable ECs
\item Split UMAP panels per group
\item Violin plots of key ECs by Family
\item Heatmap of variable ECs by Family
}
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Typically called via native_r() from singlecells_analysis:
singlecells_viz(
rawdata = embedding_df,
outputdir = "results/singlecells/group_phylum"
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{singlecells_analysis}} which calls this function
for each taxonomic rank, \code{\link{genome_scatter_viz}} for a
simpler scatter plot alternative.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.singlecells_viz at singlecells_viz.R:line 76
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
