.TH SINGLECELLS_ANALYSIS 1 2026-7月 "" "Single-Cell Style Analysis of Genome Metabolic Embeddings"
.SH NAME
singlecells_analysis \- singlecells_analysis(embedding.file,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIsinglecells_analysis(embedding.file,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Performs a single-cell analysis-inspired grouping and visualization of
genome metabolic embedding data. The function iterates over three
taxonomic ranks (Phylum, Class, Order), assigns each genome to its
group at that rank, and delegates to \code{\link{singlecells_viz}} for
Seurat-based visualization at each level.
This approach treats each genome as a "cell" and each EC number
metabolic capability as a "gene", enabling the use of single-cell
RNA-seq analysis tools for exploring metabolic diversity patterns
across microbial communities.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBembedding.file\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- './'. Character. The working directory where the grouped analysis
results and visualizations will be saved. Defaults to \code{"./"}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effects
of creating the following directory structure under \code{workdir}:
\itemize{
\item \code{singlecells/group_phylum/} — Phylum-level analysis and plots.
\item \code{singlecells/group_class/} — Class-level analysis and plots.
\item \code{singlecells/group_order/} — Order-level analysis and plots.
}
Each subdirectory contains:
\itemize{
\item \code{group_data.csv} — The embedding data with taxonomy column
replaced by the group label at the corresponding rank.
\item Seurat-based visualization PNG files (see \code{\link{singlecells_viz}}).
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The analysis pipeline for each taxonomic rank:
\enumerate{
\item Reads the embedding CSV file and parses the taxonomy strings.
\item Replaces the \code{taxonomy} column with the taxonomic name at
the current rank (e.g., for rank = "Phylum", replaces with the
phylum-level name).
\item Creates a rank-specific output directory.
\item Delegates to \code{\link{singlecells_viz}} for Seurat-based
clustering and visualization.
\item Exports the grouped data as a CSV file.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

singlecells_analysis(
embedding_file = "results/embedding/umap.csv",
workdir = "results/singlecells"
)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{singlecells_viz}} for the Seurat-based visualization
function, \code{\link{diamond_embedding}} for generating the input
embedding data, \code{\link[umap]{analysis}} for UMAP-based embedding.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.singlecells_analysis at singlecells.R:line 61
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
