.TH TFBS_MOTIF_SCANNING 1 2026-7月 "" "Scan for Transcription Factor Binding Sites (TFBS) Motifs"
.SH NAME
tfbs_motif_scanning \- tfbs_motif_scanning(app, context)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fItfbs_motif_scanning(app, context)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Performs motif scanning on gene upstream sequences to identify
Transcription Factor Binding Sites (TFBS). This function is conditionally
executed and will only run if the \code{TRN_network} module is enabled in
the virtual cell build configuration.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . The application environment or object, used to determine the
output working directory via \code{workfile()}.
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . The execution context passed by the GCModeller framework.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
\code{invisible(NULL)}. This function is called for its side effect
of writing the \code{tfbs_motifs.csv} file to the workflow workspace.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function executes a specific workflow for regulatory network
construction:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{Input Retrieval}: Reads the TSS upstream sequence FASTA
file produced by \code{\link{make_genbank_proj}}.
\item \strong{Module Check}: Verifies that the \code{TRN_network} build
module is enabled via \code{\link{check_build_module}}. If not, the
function exits early.
\item \strong{Motif Scanning}: Loads the TFBS motif database from the
package data directory and runs \code{GCModeller::scan_motifs} with
a 90\% identity cutoff.
\item \strong{Result Export}: Writes the motif scan results as a CSV file
(\code{tfbs_motifs.csv}) for downstream TRN construction by
\code{\link{make_TRN}}.
}
The output CSV contains motif hit records with the following structure:
\itemize{
\item \code{motif.id} — The motif identifier from the reference database.
\item \code{family} — The transcription factor family classification.
\item \code{name} — The descriptive name of the motif/TF.
\item \code{TF.name} — The gene locus tag of the matched transcription factor.
\item \code{protein_model} — The protein model identifier.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# This function is typically invoked by the workflow engine:
WorkflowRender::run(registry = CellRender::annotation_workflow)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{make_genbank_proj}} for upstream sequence extraction,
\code{\link{make_TRN}} for the downstream TRN construction step,
\code{\link{check_build_module}} for module enablement checking.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.tfbs_motif_scanning at tfbs_motif_scanning.R:line 56
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang <xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org>, MIT License Licensed 2026
